=head1 NAME

echoserver - echo / discard server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

echoserver [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<echoserver> is a single threaded server, handling packets coming
in on one or more UDP or TCP server sockets and echoing them back 
to the sender.

I<options> is a is a series of getopt or  getopt_long style options. See
below for more information.

The server sockets have to be created before. Usually this is done
by B<tcpsocket> or B<udpsocket>. 

B<echoserver> is a demonstration code.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item -d, --discard

Don't echo packets back to the sender.

=item -i, --interval SECONDS            

Length of an accounting period in seconds. The number of bytes received is
collected for two periods, after which the data of the oldest period
is forgotten. 

This option is useless unless used together with I<-r>.

=item -r, --rules FILENAME

Name of a CDB file containing the accounting / access rules. See
RULES, below.

=item -s, --slots NUMBER

Maximum number of open sockets, including the server sockets.

=item -t, --timeout SECONDS

Drop inbound TCP connections after that many seconds of
inactivity.

=item     --version             

Show version information.


=item     --help                

Show a list of options or the long help on one.

The use with an argument shows the long helptext
of that option, without an argument it will list
all options.

=item     --longhelp            

Show longer help texts for all or one variable

The use with an argument shows the long help for
this option, without arguments it shows the long
description of all options.

=back

=head1 RULES

B<echoserver> implements a simple kind of access control, utilizing a
constant database (CDB) file, which is re-opened every 60 seconds. 

B<echoservers> rule files are compiled by the tcprules utility from 
Daniel Bernsteins B<ucspi-tcp> package:

  tcprules CDB-filename TMP-filename <rules-filename

=for html See the <a href="http://cr.yp.to/ucspi-tcp.html">
ucspi-tcp home page</a> for more information.

B<echoservers> rule resolution is like that of B<tcpserver>, and
the rule format is like that of B<tcprules>, with
the following exceptions:

  1. There is nothing like $TCPREMOTEINFO in echoserver.
  2. The $TCPREMOTEIP environment variable is not used, but 
     the IP address of the remote host is used instead.
  3. The $TCPREMOTEHOST environment variable is not used, but
     the host name of the remote host is used instead.
  4. echoserver doesn't set environment variables, but
     honors the "limit" variable, which limits how many
     bytes are echoed back during two periods (0 means
     "no limit").

=head2 Rules file example

  194.77.219.16-31:allow,limit="0"
  194.245.:allow,limit="128000"
  :deny

=head1 EXAMPLES

How to start B<echoserver>:

  tcpsocket 0 7 \
  udpsocket 0 7 \
  echoserver -r rules.cdb

=head1 BUGS

unknown.

=head1 AUTHOR

Uwe Ohse

=head1 SEE ALSO

=for man udpsocket(8), tcpsocket(8).
http://cr.yp.to/ucspi-tcp.html

=for html <h4><a href="../uwe.html">Uwe Ohse homepage</a></h4>
<h3><a href="../iodp.html">IODP tools</a></h3>
