=head1 NAME

file-iodp - set IODP environment for file handles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

file-iodp [options] filename program [arguments]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<file-iodp> opens a file and runs
I<program> with the remaining arguments. In an alternative 
operation mode B<file-iodp> may just set the IODP environment
variables for an existing file handle and run I<program>.

I<options> is a is a series of getopt or  getopt_long style options. See
below for more information.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 File options:

Note: The default is to open the file read-write, in non-truncating
overwrite mode (like O_RDWR does).

=over 8

=item -r, --rdonly

Open the file read-only.

=item -w, --wronly

Open the file write-only. 

=item -a, --append

Append to end of file. Do not truncate.

=item -c, --create

Create new file, if needed.

=item -e, --exclusive

Fail if file already exists.

=item -t, --truncate

Truncate file.

=item -f, --fifo

Create fifo, not file.

=item -m, --mode=MODE

Set access rights of the file to MODE.
The default is 0644 for files and 622 for fifos.

=item -R, --unlink

Remove existing file. This will be done before any other operation.

=item -n, --reuse=FD

Reuse existing file handle FD, do not open another file. B<file-iodp>
will act as if it opened the file and got the file handle B<FD> in
return.

=back

=head2 Child program options:

=over 8

=item -C, --chroot=DIR

Change the working directory to I<DIR>. Then change the
root directory of the process to I<.> (the current
directory).
This will be done after the socket has been created
and before changing the group or user ID.

=item   -F, --fd=N                

Move socket handle to file descriptor I<N>.

I<N> is an integer in the range from 0 to a system
"dependent limit. The default is to not move it.
Note that moving the socket to file descriptor 2
may disturb the output of error messages.

=item   -g, --gid=GID             

Group ID to change to.

tcpsocket will switch to that group id after
the socket has been set up. GID has to be a
positive integer.

=item   -u, --uid=UID             

User ID to change to.

tcpsocket will switch to that user id after
the socket has been set up. UID has to be a
positive integer.

=item   -U, --uidgid              

The same as B<-u> $UID B<-g> $GID.

Usually used together with envuidgid.

=back

=head2 Data-gathering options:

=over 8

=item -y, --symbolic-name=NAME      

Use I<NAME> as symbolic socket name.

This is used for $IODP_n_SYMNAME, and may be
used by IODP compliant application in an
application dependant way. The default is to not
set it.

=back

=head2 Verbosity options:

=over 8

=item   -1                        

Print the local port number to the standard output.

=item   -q, --quiet               

Quiet. Do not print error messages.


=item   -Q                        

Print error messages.

This is the default.

=item   -v, --verbose             

Verbose. Print error and status messages.


=item       --version             

Show version information.


=item       --help                

Show a list of options or the long help on one.

The use with an argument shows the long helptext
of that option, without an argument it will list
all options.

=item       --longhelp            

Show longer help texts for all or one variable

The use with an argument shows the long help for
this option, without arguments it shows the long
description of all options.

=back


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

B<tcpsocket> sets the environment variables documented in the
I<iodp-tcp> specification.

=head1 EXAMPLES

	file-iodp -r /proc/kmsg \
	/usr/bin/logger -t kernel

=head1 BUGS

unknown.

=head1 AUTHOR

Uwe Ohse

=head1 SEE ALSO

=for man tcpsocket(8), udpsocket(8), uxstreamsocket(8), uxdgramsocket(8),
iodp(5).

=for html <h4><a href="../uwe.html">Uwe Ohse homepage</a></h4>
<h3><a href="../iodp.html">IODP tools</a></h3>

