=head1 NAME 

IODP-TCP - input/output descriptor protocol for TCP sockets

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This text documents the TCP specific parts of the 
input/output descriptors protocol.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 8

=item IODP_n_PROTO

will be set to TCP4.

=item IODP_n_LOCALADDR1

will be set to the local IP address the socket is bound to.

If the socket is not bound to an address then this variable will
not be set. 

If the socket is bound to B<any> address then this variable
will be set to B<0.0.0.0>.

=item IODP_n_LOCALADDR2

will be set to the local port the socket is bound to, or will be
empty if the socket is not bound to any port.

=item IODP_n_LOCALNAME

may be set to the first DNS name of the local address of the socket.

=item IODP_n_REMOTEADDR1

will be set to the remote IP address the socket is connected to.
If the socket is not connected then this variable will not be set. 

=item IODP_n_REMOTEADDR2

will be set to the remote port the socket is bound to, or will be
empty if the socket is not connected.

=item IODP_n_REMOTENAME

may be set to the first DNS name of the host the socket is connected
to, or will be empty if the socket is not connected.

=item IODP_n_LISTEN

may be set to a numerical value describing the backlog argument 
given to the I<listen> system call if the socket is in
I<listen> state. It will be unset if the value is not known
or the socket is in a different state.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<S<The IODP specification iodp(5)>|iodp>.

=for html <hr><h4><a href="../../uwe.html">Uwe Ohse homepage</a></h4>
<h3><a href="../../iodp.html">IODP tools</a></h3>
