=head1 NAME

udpsocket - create an UDP socket and run a program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

udpsocket: [options] host port command [arguments]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<udpsocket> creates a UDP socket, binds it to I<host> and I<port>
and runs I<program> with the remaining arguments.

I<options> is a is a series of getopt or  getopt_long style options. See
below for more information.

The socket is described by I<host> and I<port>. I<host>
may be 0, allowing connections to any local IP
address; or a dotted-decimal IP address, allowing connections only to
that address; or a host name, allowing connections to the first IP
address for that host. Host names are fed through qualification using
dns_ip4_qualify.

I<port>
may be a name from /etc/services or a number; if it is 0,
B<udpsocket> will choose a free UDP port.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=back

=head2 Child program options:

=over 8

=item -C, --chroot=DIR

Change the working directory to I<DIR>. Then change the
root directory of the process to I<.> (the current
directory).
This will be done after the socket has been created
and before changing the group or user ID.

=item   -F, --fd=N                

Move socket handle to file descriptor N.

`N' may be a whitespace or comma separated list.
The default is to move it to 5.
Note that moving the socket to file descriptor 2
may disturb the output of error messages.

=item   -g, --gid=GID             

Group ID to change to.

udpsocket will switch to that group id after
the socket has been set up. GID has to be a
positive integer.

=item   -u, --uid=UID             

User ID to change to.

udpsocket will switch to that user id after
the socket has been set up. UID has to be a
positive integer.

=item   -U, --uidgid              

The same as B<-u> $UID B<-g> $GID.

Usually used together with envuidgid.

=back

=head2 Data-gathering options:

=over 8

=item   -l, --localhost=NAME      

Use NAME as local host name.

Do not look up the local host name in the DNS.
This information is used to set the environment
variable UDPLOCALHOST.

=back

=head2 Verbosity options:

=over 8

=item   -1                        

Print the local port number.

After preparing to receive connections, print the
local port number to standard output.

=item   -q, --quiet               

Quiet. Do not print error messages.


=item   -Q                        

Print error messages.

This is the default.

=item   -v, --verbose             

Verbose. Print error and status messages.


=item       --version             

Show version information.


=item       --help                

Show a list of options or the long help on one.

The use with an argument shows the long helptext
of that option, without an argument it will list
all options.

=item       --longhelp            

Show longer help texts for all or one variable

The use with an argument shows the long help for
this option, without arguments it shows the long
description of all options.


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

B<udpsocket> sets the environment variables I<PROTO> (to B<UDP>),
I<UDPLOCALPORT> and I<UDPLOCALIP>,
and will set I<UDPLOCALHOST> if this information is available.
If udpsocket bound the socket to B<any> local IP address then
I<UDPLOCALIP> will be B<"0.0.0.0"> and I<UDPLOCALHOST> will be unset.

=head1 EXAMPLES

	# start a remote log receiving demon
	udpsocket 0 514 setuidgid remotelog unsyslogd

	# prepare for amanda
	udpsocket 0 10080 setuidgid amanda \
	udpwaitserver /whereever/amanda

=head1 BUGS

unknown.

=head1 AUTHOR

Uwe Ohse

=head1 SEE ALSO

=for man tcpsocket(8), uxstreamsocket(8), uxdgramsocket(8), file-iodp(8),
iodp(5).

=for html <h4><a href="../uwe.html">Uwe Ohse homepage</a></h4>
<h3><a href="../iodp.html">IODP tools</a></h3>
