=head1 NAME

uxdgramsocket - create a unix domain datagram socket

=head1 SYNOPSIS

uxdgramsocket [options] path program [arguments]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<uxdgramsocket> creates a unix domain datagram socket,
binds it to I<path>, and runs I<program> with
the remaining arguments.

I<options> is a is a series of getopt or  getopt_long style options. See
below for more information.

The socket has the name I<path>. If that file already exists
it has to be deleted before the socket is created (you can use the
-r / --remove-old-socket option for that). Note that deleting the file
does not close any old instance of the socket, it will merely make
it invisible (this means already connected sockets will stay connected).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=back

=head2 Socket options:

=over 8

=item   -R, --unlink

Remove an existing (old) socket.

Use this if you are sure that no process still
listings to an existing unix domain socket, or
if you don't care.

=item   -m, --mode=MODE           

Set access rights of the socket to MODE.

The default is 0622.

=back

=head2 Child program options:

=over 8

=item -C, --chroot=DIR

Change the working directory to I<DIR>. Then change the
root directory of the process to I<.> (the current
directory).
This will be done after the socket has been created
and before changing the group or user ID.

=item   -F, --fd=N                

Move socket handle to file descriptor N.

`N' may be a whitespace or comma separated list.
The default is to move it to 5.
Note that moving the socket to file descriptor 2
may disturb the output of error messages.

=item   -g, --gid=GID             

Group ID to change to.

uxdgramsocket will switch to that group id after
the socket has been set up. GID has to be a
positive integer.

=item   -u, --uid=UID             

User ID to change to.

uxdgramsocket will switch to that user id after
the socket has been set up. UID has to be a
positive integer.

=item   -U, --uidgid              

The same as B<-u> $UID B<-g> $GID.

Usually used together with envuidgid.

=back

=head2 Verbosity options:

=over 8

=item   -1                        

Print the local port number.

After preparing to receive connections, print the
local port number to standard output.

=item   -q, --quiet               

Quiet. Do not print error messages.


=item   -Q                        

Print error messages.

This is the default.

=item   -v, --verbose             

Verbose. Print error and status messages.


=item       --version             

Show version information.


=item       --help                

Show a list of options or the long help on one.

The use with an argument shows the long helptext
of that option, without an argument it will list
all options.

=item       --longhelp            

Show longer help texts for all or one variable

The use with an argument shows the long help for
this option, without arguments it shows the long
description of all options.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

B<uxdgramsocket> sets the environment variables I<PROTO> (to B<UXDGRAM>)
and I<UXDGRAMLOCALPATH> (to I<path>).

=head1 EXAMPLES

	uxdramsocket -r /dev/log setuidgid misclog unsyslogd 

=head1 BUGS

unknown.

=head1 AUTHOR

Uwe Ohse

=head1 SEE ALSO

=for man tcpsocket(8), udpsocket(8), uxstreamsocket(8), file-iodp(8),
iodp(5).

=for html <h4><a href="../uwe.html">Uwe Ohse homepage</a></h4>
<h3><a href="../iodp.html">IODP tools</a></h3>
